---
layout: post
title:  "Factors associated with superficial mycoses in patients visiting Alupe Clinic and its environs in Busia western Kenya"
date:   2019-10-01 05:16:28 +0300
author: ['M.M. Tom, ', 'V Matiru, ', 'O Makwaga, ', 'F Adungo ,', 'M Mwau ,', 'C Bii']
categories: ['Vol 32, No 1 (2019)']
---

# Background
Globally, Superficial fungal infections are common problems in patients infected human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).The most common, predisposition being unknown HIV status and low socio-economic factors.

# Objective
The aim of this study was to identify factors associated with Superficial mycoses in patients attending Alupe Outpatient Clinic and its environs. After ethical approval, was obtained from ethical review committee, KEMRI.

# Methods
A cross-sectional study was conducted in 371 patients from two health facilities in Busia County Kenya. Data was collected using semi structured questionnaire after patients had consented. Quantitative data was analyzed using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20.

# Results
Of 371 respondents; 42.86% (159) were males and 57.14% (212) were females. The mean age for both sexes was 30.8 years with std. dev of 20.0046 and a range of [1,89].The HIV status for respondents were; negative 49.33%, positive 6.20%, unknown status 44.47% respectively.

# Conclusion
The factors associated with superficial mycoses in patients visiting Alupe Outpatient Clinic and its environs were statistically significant and were majorly associated with; age, gender, HIV status, occupation, site of infection and County. Further research is needed to establish why there is high prevalence of superficial mycoses among; Farmers, business, pupils, students, teachers and those who are unemployed. HIV/AIDS testing and awareness as a predisposition should be prioritized in future studies.

### [Click to VIEW PDF]({{site.url}}/assets/western.pdf)